you
welcome everybody. I encourage you to take a seat. We will be starting almost on time
because we have a very rich agenda on a very big topic. We are talking about
navigating existential risk. Navigating what people have described as a very
difficult, tortuous landscape of risks that are made worse by oncoming new
frontier AI. That's not just the AI that we have today, but AI that we can
fairly easily imagine as coming within the next year or two. Next generation AI
that's more powerful, more skillful, more knowledgeable, potentially more
manipulative, potentially more deceitful, potentially more slippery, definitely
more powerful than today's AI. That AI might generate existential risks in its
own right. That AI is likely also to complicate existing existential risks,
making some of the risks we already know about more tricky to handle, more wicked.
And we might also talk about the way in which next generation AI might be the
solution to some of the existential risks and dilemmas facing society. If we can
apply AI wisely, then perhaps we can find the narrow path through this difficult
landscape. So welcome navigators in the hall. Welcome to navigators watching the
live stream. Welcome to people and AI's watching the recording of this
discussion. Let's get stuck in. We have lots of very capable, knowledgeable
speakers who will approach this from a diversity of points of view. Indeed, I
think one of the hazards in this whole topic is that some people want to be a
little bit one dimensional. They want to say, this is how we'll solve the problem.
It's quite straightforward. In my view, there are no straightforward solutions
here, but you can make up your own minds as you listen to what all the speakers
and panelists have to say. And yes, in the audience, you'll have a chance later
on to raise your hand and get involved in the conversation too. The first person
you're going to hear from is unfortunately not able to be with us
tonight, but he has recorded a short video. He is Sir Robert Buckland, MP,
former Lord Chancellor of the United Kingdom, which means he was responsible
for the entire justice system here, former Secretary of State for Wales. He is
still an MP and he has a side hustle as a senior fellow at the Harvard Kennedy
School, where he is writing papers on exactly the topics we're going to be
discussing tonight, namely how does AI change key aspects of society, potentially
making it better, potentially making it much worse if we are unwise. So let's
watch Sir Robert Buckland who will appear by magic on the big screen.
Well, I'm very pleased to be able to join you, albeit virtually, for the Conjecture
ARO Summit on AI and the challenges and opportunities that it presents us. And I
think my pleasure at being with you is based upon not just my own experience in
government, but also my deep interest in the subject since my departure from
government last year. Now, when I was in government, I had responsibility for
for many years the legal advice that was given to departments and indeed to the
government in general when I was in the Law Offices Department as the Solicitor
General. And then responsibility for running the Ministry of Justice as
Lord Chancellor and Secretary of State for over two years before a brief return as
Wales Secretary last year. That seven years or so experience within government as a
minister gave me, I think, a very deep insight into the pluses and the minuses
of the way the government works, the efficiencies and indeed the inefficiencies
about process. And I think clearly, as in other walks of life, artificial
intelligence, machine learning will bring huge advantages to government processes to
improve efficiency, to speed up a lot of the particular ways in which government
works, which will be, I think, to the benefit of citizens, whether it's citizens
waiting for passport applications, visa applications or other government processes
benefits, for example. However, I think that we kid ourselves if we don't accept
the fact that alongside the benefits come potential pitfalls. And the first and
most obvious one, I think, for me is the scrutability of process. In other words,
the way in which we understand how decisions are made. And that's very
important. Because understanding how decisions are made is part of democratic
accountability in societies like ours, where individuals or organizations wish
to challenge decisions made by government, perhaps through judicial review
applications, then the explicability of those decisions, which is accompanied by
a duty of candor by the government in order to disclose everything about those
decisions is part of that accountability. And of course, it's sometimes very
difficult to explain how the machine has come to decisions. And more fundamental
than that, we have to accept that if the data sets that are used in order to
populate the processes are not as full of integrity as they should be, and are
not the product of genuinely objective and carefully calibrated processes, then
we are in danger of importing historic biases into the system, whether it's
biases against neurodiverse people making job applications, or deep biases
against people of color in the criminal justice system, simply because the data
sets have imported those historical anomalies, those historical imbalances.
Now, all those questions have really got me thinking very deeply about the
impact of machine learning on the ethics of justice itself. And as a result of
my thinking, I was delighted last year to be accepted as a senior fellow at the
Moserfa-Romani Center for Business and Government at Harvard Kennedy School, and
I am working currently on a number of papers relating to the impact of AI and
machine learning on the administration of justice and the law itself. It really
developed from my own experience as law chancellor, from digitalization, I
should say, of the courts when, during the Covid pandemic, we had to move many,
many thousands of hearings online for the first time. You know, I think we jumped
from a couple of hundred phone or online hearings to 20,000 a week in a very
short compass. And the status quo will never be the same again. In fact, it has
moved on, I think, in a way that we just hadn't foreseen before the pandemic. Now,
I think that's a good thing, but I also think that accompanying this question
about increased efficiency is the use of artificial intelligence. Now, in some
jurisdictions, such as China, we are seeing its increased use, not just to do
legal research and to prepare cases, but to actually decide themselves. In other
words, the AI judge. Now, that's all well and good. But do we actually know what
populates the data sets that then forms the basis of the decisions made? And I
think it's that intentional, unintentional bias, or indeed worse than that
potential intentional bias, whether that's influenced by a government or
indeed a corporate that might be able through their financial means to
influence a procedure or indeed the way in which we deal with cases, knowing as
we might do more information about the way in which judges make the decisions.
All these questions, I think, need to be asked now before we end up in a
position where we've slept, walked into a completely different form of justice
than the one that we know. Now, underpinning all of this, I think, is the
need to ask a fundamental question about judgment itself. And that's what I've
been doing in my first paper. You know, the essence of human judgment is
something that will be based not just upon an understanding of the law, but on
our experiences as human beings. And you can go right back, as I have done, to
the judgment of Solomon and his emotional response to the woman who
clearly was the true mother of the child that he proposed to be cut in half.
Now, you know, that's an example, I think, of the human element of
judgment, which has to be an essential foundation of decision making,
particularly when it comes to the assessment of credibility of a witness,
human witness giving evidence upon which the case stands all falls. And of
course, for judge, that applies for juries as well in criminal trials,
particularly here in the UK. Now, you know, all these questions, I think, need
to be asked. And then we need to work out what it is that we want to retain out
of all of this. Now, I don't think we should make any cosy assumptions that
because at the moment some large learning systems are having hallucinations.
I don't think we should be assuming that just because of that, therefore AI
will never work in a way that can achieve a greater degree of certainty.
I think the inevitable arc of development will result in better and
better and more capable machines. That's inevitable. And what we must be
asking at the same time as capability is ensuring there is greater security and
safety when it comes to the use of AI. And that really underpins, I think,
the work that I'm doing in the field of justice. What does this all lead to
then? Well, we have the AI Safety Summit in the UK next month. I very much
hope that that summit will first of all involve those critical players in
terms of international organisations and key countries as well that will come
together to commit to creating, I think, a defined framework within which we
should be using AI safely. And that framework, I think, will have to take
several forms. I think in the field of justice, we could do with an international
framework of principles, which will ensure transparency and which can
reassure people that in cases of the liberty of the individual criminal
cases, cases where perhaps the welfare of a child and the ultimate destination of
a child is in issue, then the human element will be the key determinant in
any decisions that are made. And that the use of machines will be transparent and
made known to all the parties throughout the proceedings. And then other
walks of life, I think the AI Safety Summit has to then look as well at
whether frameworks can be created and what form they should take. I think
it's tempting to try and be prescriptive. I think that would be a mistake, not
just for the obvious reason that AI is developing and therefore anything that
we write in 2023 will soon be out of date. But the very fact that AI itself
does not mean an alloyed harm. In fact, it means a lot of benefit and also
some neutral effects as well. And where you have that approach, then a
principle based system seems to me to be more sensible than overly
prescriptive and detailed rules as you would have, for example, to prevent a
crime such as fraud. So just some preliminary thoughts there as to the
impact of machine learning. I don't pretend to be a technical expert. I'm
not. But my years in justice, my years as a lawyer, a judge and as a senior
cabinet minister, I think obliged me to do some of the thinking now to help
ensure that countries like Britain are in the forefront of the sensible and
proportionate regulation of the use of machine learning and other types of
artificial intelligence. If we don't do it now, then I think we'll be missing
an unhistoric opportunity. I wish you all well and I look forward to meeting
some of you in future and discussing these issues as they develop. Thank you
very much.
Well, thank you, Sir Robert, who may be watching the recording of this. Don't be
prescriptive, he said. Let's sort out some sensible proportionate regulation. Is
that credible? Is that feasible? You'll be hearing from other panelists who may
be commenting on that shortly. So Robert also said there are risks such as the
inscrutability of AI. We don't understand often how they reach its decisions. We
don't understand the biases that might be there that might have been planted. We
might lose charge. We might become so used to AI taking decisions that humans
end up in a very sad place. But how bad could things get? That's what we're
going to hear from our next speaker. So I'm going to ask Conor Leahy to come up
to the stage while I briefly introduce him. Conor is the CEO of Conjecture. If
you haven't heard about Conjecture, I think you need to do a bit more reading.
Perhaps Conor will say a little bit about it. They are AI alignment solutions
company, international, but with strong representation here in the UK. So welcome
Conor, the floor is yours.
Thank you so much. It's so great to see you all today. So happy to be able to talk
to you here in person. And man, do we live in interesting times, to put it
lightly. The world has changed so much. Just in the last few years, a few months
even, so much has happened in the world of AI and beyond. Just a couple of years
ago, there wasn't such a thing as chat GPT, or even GPT 3, or 4, or 2, or any of
those. It was a different world not too long ago when technologists such as myself,
weird little hobbyists, worried about the problem of AGI and how it will affect
the world. Back then, it still seemed so far away. It seemed like we still had time.
But now we find ourselves in a world of unrestricted, uncontrolled scaling, a
race towards the finish, towards the end, to scale our AI systems ever more
powerful, more general, more autonomous, more intelligent. And the reason I care
about this is very simple. If we build systems that are smarter than humans, that
are more capable at manipulation, deception, politics, making money, scientific
research, and everything else, and we do not control such systems, then the future
will belong to them, not to us. And this is not the future I want. I want a future
in which humanity gets to decide its destiny. We get to decide the future for
ourselves, for our children, for our children's children, that we like. The
future where our children can live long, happy lives surrounded by beauty, art,
great technology, instead of being replaced by souless automata. And let me be
clear that this is the default outcome of building an uncontrolled AGI system,
the full replacement of mankind. And what we're seeing is that AI is on an
exponential. There's a race. All the top organizations, which is open AI, deep
mind, anthropic, among others, are racing ahead as fast as the VC dollars
scale up their work. And this has given us an exponential. AI is on an
exponential curve, both on hardware and on software. It's improving at
incredible rates. And when you're dealing with an exponential, there are
precisely two times you can react to it too early or too late. There is no such
thing as reacting at just the right moment on an exponential, where you
find just the perfect middle point just in the nick of time when everyone
agrees that the problem is here and everything has perfect consensus. If you
do this, you are too late. It will be too late. And the same thing applies to
AGI. If we wait until we see the kinds of dangerous general purpose systems that
I am worried about, then it will already be too late. By the moment such systems
exist, the story of mankind is over. And so if we want to act, we must act well,
well before such things actually come into existence. And unfortunately, we do
not have much time. How the world has changed. As frightening and as
terrible the race may be, there's also good changes. A few years ago, I could
have barely imagined seeing governments, politicians, and the general public
waking up to these weird nerd issues that I cared about so much with my
friends online. But now we're looking forward to the first international AI
summit convened by the UK and the famous Tip Bletchley Park. And this is great
news. The European Commission has recently officially acknowledged the
existential risks from AGI along with the risks from nuclear weapons and
pandemics. This is great progress. This is fantastic. It is good to see our
governments and our societies waking up and addressing these issues or at least
beginning to acknowledge them. And we must use this opportunity. We have an
opportunity right now and we must prevent it from being wasted. Because
there's also bad news. We're having this great opportunity to start building
the regulation and the coordination necessary for a good future. The very
people who are creating these risks, the very people at the heads of these
labs, these organizations, buildings technologies, are the very people who are
being called upon by our governments to help regulate the very problem that
they themselves are creating. And let me be very explicit about this. The
problem that we face is not AGI. AGI doesn't exist yet. The problem we
face is not a natural problem either. It is not an external force acting
upon us from nature. It comes from people, from individual people, businessmen,
politicians, technologists, athletes, large organizations who are racing, who are
skilling, who are building these technologies and who are creating these
risks for their own benefit. But they have offered us these very people who are
causing this problem, have offered us a solution. Fantastic. And they are pushing
it as hard as they can towards the UK government and the upcoming summit. So
what is the solution? The solution to the problem of scaling these labs, these
accelerations labs such as Anthropic and ARC have been pushing for. What is the
solution? Well, the solution to the scaling problem is called responsible
scaling. Now, what is responsible scaling? You might ask, you see, it's like
normal scaling except you put the word responsible in front of it. And that
makes it good. So, of course, I'm joking somewhat, but there's a lot of truth in
humor. Responsible scaling is basically the policy, and you can read this on
both ARC or Anthropics website, is the policy proposal that we should continue
to scale uninhibited until at some future time when tests and evaluations that
do not yet exist and we do not know how to build, but the labs promise us they
will build, detect some level of dangerous capabilities that we do not yet know,
and then once it gets to that point, then they will stop, maybe, except there is
a clause in the Anthropic version of the RSP paper in which they say that if a
different organization was scaling even super unsafely, then they can break this
commitment and keep scaling anyways. So, this could be sensible if they committed
to, you know, a sensible bound, a conservative point on which to stop, but
unfortunately the responsible scaling policy RSP fails to actually commit to
any objective measure whatsoever. So, effectively, the current policy is to
just keep scaling until they feel like stopping. This is the policy that is
being suggested to our politicians and to the wider world as the responsible
option for policy makers. It is trying to, is very clear that it is trying to
recast this techno-libertarian extremist position as sensible, moderate,
responsible even. Now, in my humble opinion, the reasonable, moderate position
to when dealing with a threat that is threatening the lives of billions of
people is to simply not do that. But instead, this is trying to pass off this
as the sensible, middle-ground position. The truth of RSP is that it comes from
the same people who are causing this risk to exist. These people, the heads of
these labs, many of the scientists and the policy people and the other people
working on this, have known about existential risks for decades. And they
fully admit this. This is not like they haven't heard about this. It's not even
that they don't believe it. You can talk to them. They're on the record talking
about how they believe that there is a significant chance that AGI could cause
extinction of the entire human species. In a recent podcast, Dario Amade, the CEO
of Anthropic, one of these labs, himself, said that he thinks it's a
probably 25% chance that it could kill literally everybody. And they're doing it
anyway. Despite this, they keep doing it. Why? Well, if you were talking to these
people, what they might tell you is that, sure, you know, I know it's dangerous. I
am very careful. But these other guys, well, they're even less careful than me. So
I need to be number one. So I actually have to race faster than everyone else.
And they all think this about each other. They call this incremental, but they
never pause. They always race as fast as they possibly can. Do as I say, not as I
do. There is a technical term for this. It's called hypocrisy.
And RSP is no different. They are simply trying to twist words in an Oralian way
to be allowed to keep doing the thing that they want to do anyways,
which they themselves say could risk everybody. I mean, has responsible in the name, must be good.
When people like Sam Altman talk about iterative deployment, about how we must iteratively
release AI systems into the wild so societies can adapt to them, be inoculated by them,
it sounds so nice. It sounds almost responsible. But if you're really trying to inoculate
someone, you should let the host actually adapt before you jam in the next new pathogen
into their weakened immune system as fast as you possibly can. But this is exactly what
laboratories such as OpenAI, DeepMind, Anthropic, and Tier 2 labs such as Meta are doing with all
the force they can muster to develop more and more new systems as fast as possible,
release them as fast as possible, wide as spread possible. Now, if OpenAI had developed a GPT-3
and then completely stop further scaling, focused all of the efforts on understanding GPT-3,
making it safe, making it controllable, working with governments and civil society to adapt the new
problems posed by a system for years or even decades, and then they build GPT-4?
Yeah, you know what? Fair enough. I think that could work. That would be responsible.
But this is not what we were seeing.
All of these people at all of these institutions are running a deadly experiment
that they themselves think might cause extinction. It is gain of function research on AI
just like viruses, developed and released to the public as fast and aggressively as possible.
They're developing more and more dangerous and more and more powerful viruses as quickly as
possible and forcing it into everyone's immune system until they break. There is no responsible
gain of function research for extinction level threats. There is no such thing.
We have no control over such systems and there is no responsible way to continue
like this. And anyone who tells you otherwise is lying.
A lot has changed. The summit can lead to many boring outcomes, just exchanges of diplomatic
platitudes as is often the outcome of such international events. They have some good
outcomes and can have some very, very bad outcomes. Success in the summit is progress
towards stopping the development of extinction level AGI before we know how to control it.
Most other outcomes are neutral and bad outcomes. They look like policymakers blindly and sheepishly
swallowing the propaganda of the corporations to allow them to continue their unconscionably
dangerous gamble for their own personal gain and glory at the expense of the entire planet.
We owe it to ourselves and our children to build a good future, not gamble it all
on a few people's utopian fever dreams. Governments and the public have a chance
to regain control over the future, and this is very hopeful. I wasn't sure we were going to get it,
but the summit speaks to this, that people can act, that governments can act, that civil society
can act, that it is not yet too late. There is simply no way around it. We need to stop
the uncontrolled scaling, the uncontrolled race, if we want a good future.
And we are lucky because we can do this. We can cap the maximum amount of computing power
going into these AI systems. We can have government intervene and prevent the creation
of the next more dangerous, more general, more intelligent strain of AI until we are ready to
handle it. And don't let anything distract you from this. There is no good future in which we
continue on this path, and we can change this path. We need to come together to solve these
incredibly complex problems that we are facing, and not let ourselves be led astrayed by corporate
propaganda. And I hope that the governments and the civil society of the world do what needs to be
done. Thank you. Thank you, Conor. We will take questions from the floor in a moment.
I'll just start off with the question, I think, maybe on many people's minds.
Why would a super-intelligent AI actually want to kill humans? I have a super-intelligent calculator
which is no desire to kill me. I have a super-intelligent chess-playing computer that is no
desire to kill me. Why don't we just build, as responsible scaling, an AI that has no desires
of its own? Because we don't know how to do that. Why did Homo sapiens eradicate Homer Neanderthalis
and Homo erectus and all the other species that we share the planet with? You should think AGI,
not of as a calculator, but as a new species on our planet. There will be a moment where humanity
is no longer the only or even the most intelligent species on this planet, and we will be outcompeted.
I don't think it will come necessarily from malice. I think it will be efficiency. We will build
systems that make money, that are effective at solving tasks, at solving problems, at gaining
power. These are what these systems are being designed to do. We are not designing systems
with human morals and ethics and emotions. They're AI. They don't have emotions. We don't even know
how to do that. We don't even know how emotions work. We have no idea how you could get an AI to
have emotions like a human does. So what we're building is extremely competent, completely
sociopathic, emotionless, optimizing machines that are extremely good at solving problems,
extremely good at gaining power, that do not care about human values or emotions,
never sleep, never tire, never get distracted, can work a thousand times faster than humans,
and people will use these for many reasons. And eventually, I think humanity will just
no longer be in control. Questions from the floor? There's a lady in the third drawer down here.
Just wait for the mic, sorry, so that the audience online can hear you.
Susan Finnell from Finnell Consult. To stop the arms race, certainly at a geographical level,
I mean, in nuclear, the states and Europe can tell which countries are building nuclear weapons
and what they've got, and they can do tests. If computing power is a thing that needs to be
capped to slow this down enough, is there a way to monitor what other countries or
people in a clandestine way are doing, and how does that work?
This is a fantastic question, and the extremely good news is yes. At least currently,
this will change in the near future, but the current state to build frontier models requires
incredibly complex machines, massive supercomputers that take megawatts of energy.
So this is on the order you'd have of a nuclear centrifuge facility. So these are massive,
huge machines that are only built by basically three or four companies of the world. There are
very, very few companies, and there is extreme bottlenecks on the supply chain. You need very,
very specialized infrastructure, very specialized computer chips, very specialized hardware to
be able to build these machines, and these are produced exclusively by countries basically in
the West and Taiwan. There are many ways where the US or other intelligence services can and
already are intervening on these supply chains, and it would be very easy to monitor where these
things are going, who is buying them, where is energy being drawn on large scales. So it is not
easy, and the problem is that AI is unexponential both with hardware and with software. Eventually,
it will be possible to make essentially dangerous AGI on your home laptop, probably,
maybe not, but it seems plausible. If we get to that world, we're in big trouble. So this is part
also why we have to buy time. We have, at some point, there will be a cutoff where we'll have
algorithms that are so good that either we have to stop everyone from having a PlayStation at home,
which doesn't seem that plausible, or at that point we have to have very good global coordination
and regulation. Thanks. Just past the mic behind you, there's a person in the row behind.
Robert Whitfield from One World Trust. Can I ask about Bletchley Park? Do you know, I mean are you
participating, and if not, do you know anybody else with similar views to you who is participating?
I can't comment too much, since it's closed doors, it's a very private event,
unfortunately, so I don't think I have my liberty to talk about exactly what I know. I think the
guest list is not public. I don't know most of the people who are coming. I know the obvious ones,
all the CEOs of all the top labs, of course, are attending, is not a secret. I don't know
who, if anyone, of my reference class is attending.
And just past the mic next to you, Robert. Thank you. Perhaps I can answer that question.
Anybody that has read The Guardian today, there is an interview with Clifford,
and for the very first time, not for the second time, it has been clarified that there will be
only about 100 people participating on the first day. Anybody is invited, including China,
on the second day, apparently there will be only the coalition of the willing.
So those who subscribe to the Frontier Model Forum, they will sit on the second day,
that's the current question. My main impression from that article is generally it's very positive,
and I would say I've been surprised, as you would be surprised, that the UK government is really
doing what it can to get the mission to what the title of the conference says, the AI safety
summit. It's not about regulation, it's about controlling AI, and they're trying to do their best.
The problem is, as outlined in that interview, is that we seem to be alone. We have the states
a little bit, but the rest wants to go their own way and do it on their own territory, which is,
I think, the tune. I agree. Sooner or later, international coordination around these issues
will be necessary. It's as simple as that. If you want humanity to have a long, good future,
we need to be able, as a global civilization, to handle powerful technologies like this.
Take a question right from the back.
In terms of legislation, what kind do you think was most effective? I've heard, for example,
liability law takes too long to actually have an effect, and compute governance
generally seems to be very easy to be called totalitarian. What do you think of legislation such
as models must be released with a version before pre-processing, and there'd be attacks on the
number of harmful outputs done by the model before the pre-processing?
I am open to many kinds of regulation per se. I would strongly disagree with this description
of compute governance. This is like saying that not the private citizens not having nuclear weapons
is totalitarian. I respectfully disagree. I'm quite happy that people do not have private
nuclear weapons, and I do not think that people should have private AGI's. Similarly, I think
liability is very promising. I think it has to be strict liability, so liability for developers
rather than just users. This aligns the incentives of developers with those of wider
society. The point of liability is to price in the negative externalities for the people actually
causing them, so I'm a big fan of this. A third form of policy I would also suggest is a global
AI kill switch. This would be a protocol where some number of countries or large organizations
participate, and if some number of them decide to actually do this protocol, all major deployments
of frontier models must be shut down and taken offline, and this should be tested every six
months as a fire drill for five minutes to ensure full, so that hopefully we never need it, but if
we do, that at least the protocol exists. Thank you very much. There are lots of hands up. Hold
your questions. There will be more chance for Q&A later. Corner final remarks before we hand over
to the next speaker. I want to really say that I do agree that it is very hopeful to see that
the UK is trying to do things and is trying to push us forward into the good world, because what
we really need, as I said briefly, what we need is as a civilization to mature enough to be able
to handle dangerous technology. Even if we don't build AI right now, at some point we will build
something so powerful that it can destroy everything. It's just a matter of time. Our technology
keeps becoming more powerful. The only way for us to have a long-term good future is to build
the institutions, the civilization, the world that can handle this, that cannot build such things,
that cannot hold the trigger. I do think this is possible. I do think that it is, in fact,
so I have heard, in the interest of most people to not die. I think there is a natural coalition here,
but it is hard, and I will not deny this is an extremely challenging problem,
almost unlike, I mean, basically something we haven't faced in this nuclear proliferation,
and even then it's even worse this time. It's an incredibly difficult problem. It is not over yet,
but it could be very soon. If we don't act, if we let ourselves get distracted, if we fall for
propaganda, and all these things, these opportunities can be gone, and that will be it. But the game
is not over yet, so let's do it. Thank you very much.
So we've heard from a politician, a senior politician. We've heard from a technology
entrepreneur and activist. We're now going to hear from a professor who is zooming in
all the way from Kentucky from the University of Louisville. He's an expert. He's written several
books on cybersecurity, computer science, and artificial superintelligence. Ah, Roman,
I see you on the screen. I hope you're hearing us. Tell us, can we control superintelligence?
Over to you. No. The answer is no. I'll tell you why in a few minutes.
That's fine. So you can share your slides or talk to us whenever you're ready.
Let's do the slides. Connor did a great job with his
presentation. Let me see one second here.
In the meantime, we can see the covers of some of your books in the background.
Yes, absolutely.
Safety and security and artificial superintelligence.
We're now having a slight technical issue as the
technologist is found to slides. Great. Okay. Yeah, that's the hardest part. If I can get slides going,
the rest is easy. Okay, so I didn't know what Connor's going to talk about.
He did a great job. He's a deep thinker and covered a lot of important material.
I will cover some of the same material, but I will have slides. And I will slightly
take it to the next level where I may make Connor look like an optimist. So let's see how that goes.
To begin with, let's look at the past. Well over a decade ago, predictions were made
about the state of AI based on nothing but compute power. Ray Kurzweil essentially looked at this
scalability hypothesis before it was known as such and said by 2023, we will have
computational capabilities to emulate one human brain. By 2045, we would be able to
do it for all of humanity. So we are in 2023. Let's look at what we can do in the present.
In the spring of this year, a program was released, which I'm sure many of you got to
play with called GPT-4, which is not a general intelligence, but it performs at a level
superior to most humans in quite a few domains. If we look specifically at this table of different
exams, lower exams, medical exams, AP tests, GRE tests, it's at 98, 99th percentile of performance
for many of them, if not most. That is already quite impressive and we know that there are models
coming around, which are not just text models, but multi-model large models, which will overtake
this level of performance. It seems like GPT-4 was stopped in its training process right around this
human capacity and if we were to train the next model, GPT-5, if you will, will quickly go into
the superhuman territory and by the time the training run is done, we would already be
dealing with superintelligence out of the box. But let's see what the future holds according to
heads of top labs prediction markets. So we heard from CEO of Entropic, CEO of DeepMind.
They both suggest that within two or three years we will have artificial general intelligence,
meaning systems capable of doing human beings can do in all those domains, including science and
engineering. It's possible that they are overly optimistic or pessimistic, depending on your
point of view. So we can also look at prediction markets. I haven't grabbed the latest slide,
but last time I looked, prediction markets also had three to four years before artificial general
intelligence, which is very, very quick. Why is this a big deal? This technology at the level of
human capability means that we can automate a lot of dangerous malevolent behaviors,
such as creating biological pandemics, new viruses, nuclear wars. And that's why we see
a lot of top scholars, influential business people, in fact, thousands of computer scientists all
signed this statement saying that, yes, AI will be very, very dangerous and we need to take it
with the same level of concern as we would nuclear war. So what is the problem everyone is concerned
about? The problem is that, for one, we don't agree on what the problem is. Early in computer science,
early in the history of AI, concerns were about AI ethics. How do we make software which is ethical
and moral? And there was very little agreement. Nobody solved anything, but everyone proposed
their own ethical system, gave it a name and described what they had in mind.
About a decade ago, we started to realize that ethics is not enough. We need to look at safety
of those systems. So again, we started this naming competition. We had ideas for friendly AI, control
problem, value alignment. It doesn't really matter what we call it. We all intuitively kind of
understand we want a system which, if we run it, we will not regret running it. It will be beneficial
to us. So how can humanity remain safely in control while benefiting from superior form
of intelligence is the problem? I would like us to look at. We can call it control problem
and the state of the art in this problem. In fact, we don't really know if the problem is even
solvable. It may be partially solvable, unsolvable. Maybe it's a silly question and the problem is
undecidable. A lot of smart people made their judgments known about this problem. Unfortunately,
there is little agreement. Answers range from definitely solvable, from a surprising source,
like Eliezer Ytkovsky, to very tractable, from head of superalignment team at one of the top labs,
to, I have no idea, from a top tuning award winner who created much of machine learning
evolution. So I think it's an important problem for us to look at, to address, and to understand
how we can best figure out what is the status of the problem. My approach to that is to think
about the tools I would need to control a system like that, an intelligent, very capable AI. And
the tools I would guess I would need, ability to explain how it works, capability to comprehend
how it works, predict its behavior, verify if the code follows design, be able to communicate
with that system. And probably some others, but maybe some of the tools are interchangeable.
So I did the research and I published results on each one of those tools. And the results are not
very optimistic. For each one of those tools, there are strong limits to what is capable
in the worst case scenarios. When we're talking about superintelligent systems, self-improving
code systems, smarter than human, capable of learning in new domains, it seems that there are
limits to our ability to comprehend those systems, offer those systems to explain their behavior.
The only true explanation for an AI model is the model itself. Anything else is a simplification.
You are getting a compressed, lossy version of what is happening in a model. If a full model is
given, then you of course would not comprehend it because it's too large, too complex, it's not
surveyable. So there are limits to what we can understand about those black box models.
Similarly, we have limits to predicting capabilities of those systems. We can predict
general direction in which they are going, but we cannot predict specific steps for how
they're going to get there. If we could, we would be as intelligent as those systems. If you're playing
chess against someone and you can predict every move they're going to make, you're playing at the
same level as that opponent. But of course, we made an assumption that a superintelligent system
would be smarter than us. There are similar limits to our ability to verify software. At best, we can
get additional degree of verification for the amount of resources contributed. So we can make
systems more and more likely to be reliable, to have less bugs, but we never get to a point of
100% safety and security. And I'll explain why that makes a difference in this domain.
Likewise, human language is a very ambiguous language. It's not even as unambiguous as computer
programming languages. So we are likely to make mistakes in giving orders to those systems.
All of it kind of leads us to conclude that it will not be possible to indefinitely control
superintelligent AI. We can trade capabilities for control, but at the end, if we want very,
very capable systems, and this is what we're getting with superintelligence,
we have to surrender control to them completely. If you feel that the impossibility results I
presented were just not enough, we have another paper where we cover about 50 of those impossibility
results. It's a large survey in a prestigious journal of ACM surveys.
From the beginning of history of AI with founding fathers like Alan Turing who said
that he expects the machine will take over at some point to modern leaders of AI like Elon
Musk who says we will not control them for sure. There is a lot of deep thinkers, philosophers,
who came to that exact conclusion. We are starting to see top labs publish reports
in which they may gently acknowledge such scenarios. They call them pessimistic scenarios
where the problem is simply unsolvable. We cannot control superintelligence. We cannot
control it indefinitely. We are not smart enough to do it, and it doesn't even make sense that
that would be a possibility. They ask, well, what's the distribution? What are the chances
that we're in a universe where that's the case? They don't provide specific answers, but it seems
from some of the writing and posts they make, maybe about 15 percent is allocated to that
possibility. I was curious to see what other experts think, so I made a very small, very
unscientific survey on social media. I surveyed people in my Facebook group on AI safety,
and I surveyed my followers on Twitter, and it seems that about a third think that the problem
is actually solvable. Everyone else thinks it's either unsolvable or it's undecidable,
or we can only get partial solutions or we will not solve it on time. So that's actually an
interesting result. Most people don't think we can solve this problem, and I think part of the
reason they think we cannot solve this problem is because there is a fundamental difference between
kind of standard cybersecurity safety and superintelligence safety. And cybersecurity,
even if you fail, it's not a big deal. You can issue new passwords, you can provide someone with
a new credit card number, and you get to try again. We suspect strongly with superintelligent
safety, you only get one chance to get it right. There are unlimited dangers and limited damages,
either you have existential risks or suffering risks. And we kind of agree that 100% is not an
attainable level of security verification safety, but anything less is not sufficient.
If a system makes a billion decisions a minute and you only make mistake once every couple
billion decisions, after a few minutes you are dead. And so this is like creating a perpetual
motion machine. You are trying to design perpetual safety machine while they keep releasing more and
more capable systems, GPT-5, GPT-50. At some point this game is not going to end in your favor.
So I'm hoping that others join me in this line of research. We need to better understand what are
the limits to controlling superintelligence systems. Is it even possible? My answer is no,
but I would love to be proven wrong. It would be good to have surveys similar to the ones I
conducted on a larger scale to get much more statistically significant results.
And in case we do agree that we have this worst case scenario where we are creating
superintelligence and it is impossible to control it, what is our plan? Do we have a plan of action
for this worst case scenario? This is what I wanted to share with you and I'm happy to answer
any questions. Thank you very much, Roman.
Optimistic, Roman.
Sorry, one second. I'm trying to figure out how to use Zoom. Go ahead and repeat your question
please. You gave us many reasons to be anxious. What do you think is the best reason for us to be
optimistic? Well, there seems to be many ways we can end up with World War 3 recently, so
that can slow down some things.
It has been suggested that we can use a different kind of tool, which is the kill switch. Your
list of tools that you listed, it didn't include that. It's been proposed that each AI system should
be tested with a remote off switch capability. Have you looked at that? Do you think that's a viable
option? So I would guess a superintelligent system would outsmart our ability to press the off button
in time. It will work for not superintelligent AI, pre-GI systems, maybe even for the GI systems,
but the moment it becomes that much more advanced, I think it will outsmart us. It will take over
any kill switch options we have. Let's have some questions from the floor.
I can't see the hands, so yes, just give the microphone out. Thank you.
Thank you. I would like to ask, how does the scalable oversight that open AI is working on,
essentially the way they plan to align superintelligence, fit into your expectation of the
future pathway the AGI will take? Because again, as personally, we cannot align or control a
superintelligent entity, but another AI which is more capable than us could. So how does that fit
into your expectations? So it seems like it increases complexity of the overall system,
instead of us trying to control one AI. Now you're trying to control a chain of agents going from
slightly smarter to smarter to superintelligent, maybe 50 agents in between, and you're saying that
you have to solve alignment problem between all the levels, communication problem, ambiguity of
language between all those models, supervision. It seems like you're trying to get safety by
kind of upthuscating how the model actually works. You're introducing more complexity,
hoping to make the system easier to control that seems counterintuitive.
But isn't it the case that sometimes you can verify an answer without understanding the
mechanism by which the answer was achieved? For example, there can be a chess puzzle,
and you know a way of working out yourself, but when somebody shows you the answer, you can say,
oh yes, this is the answer. Isn't it possible? We don't need to really understand what's going
on inside these systems, but a simpler AI can at least verify the recommendations that come out of
the more complex AIs. So such a chain may be the solution. Can you claim that you are still in control
if you don't understand what's happening and somebody just tells you don't worry, it's all
good I checked it for you? But then it's like we humans, we have a network of trust. When I trust
some people and they trust others within various categories, we can't work out everything ourselves,
but we trust some scientists or some engineers or some lawyers who validate that an AI has a certain
level of capability and that AI could come back with verification that the proposals of a super
intelligence should be accepted or should not be. I don't say it's easy, but as you said there's
not likely to be a very simple and straightforward solution. Again, to me at least it sounds like
instead of trying to make this system safe, you said that you made some other system safe and
it made sure that the system you could make safe is safe for you. Let's take some more questions.
There's another one in the middle here. Then we'll go to the edge. Yes, thank you.
Thank you for the presentation. Number one, second thing is that as you're talking about,
I think as David was talking about trust basically, could you tell me from your
extensive years of AI research and experience as such that do you really think that humans
or society can be trusted to, for example, regulate its own self or do you think that
really need some sort of institution of sort that is totally separate from anyone else?
So I'm not sure regulation would be enough. Connor correctly pointed out that there is
both lobbying of regulators by the labs and also it becomes easy and easier to train those models
with less compute and over time you will be able to do it with very little resources. The only
way forward I see is personal self-interest. If you are a rich young person and you think this is
going to kill you and everyone else, maybe it's not in your best interest to get there first.
That's really the only hope at this point, just personal self-interest.
The humans are always better if we can band together with our self-interest rather than each
of us individually pursuing our self-interest. So I think this kind of meeting and the community
spirit might help. There was a hand over here, yes, with I think the red shirt on jacket.
Yeah, if we assume that the two kind of well both views that have been suggested so far are
correct in that we're definitely not going to be able to stop AI development etc and we're going
to get to the point where we have no regulation that can effectively stop things. You know people
can build in super intelligent AI on their own computers etc okay so we'll assume that that's a
fact that's coming and then we'll also assume that the control problem isn't a problem because
it's a problem that can't be solved and we're definitely not going to be able to control it.
Well now we're heading and barreling towards the point where we have super intelligent
AIs definitely and we definitely can't control them. What comes next? What comes next?
It's a wonderful question. As I said and published you cannot predict what the super
intelligent system will do. All right so was there a question down here? Thank you.
You said that we kind of need a plan but on that last question if that scenario is true.
You said we need to do more work in this area but do you have any thoughts as to
what we should be doing? What we should be doing to plan for the worst-case scenario?
So to me at least it seems that at least in some cases it is possible to use this idea of personal
self-interest. If you have a young person having a good life there is no reason why they need to
do it this year or next year. I understand that someone may be in a position where they are very
old very sick have nothing to lose and it's much harder to convince them not to try but at least
from what I see the heads of those companies are all about the same age they young they healthy they
they have a lot of money there is a good way to motivate them to wait a little bit maybe a decade
or two just out of personal self-interest again. I think my answer to the question of optimism is
that we humans can do remarkable things we humans can solve very hard problems and so I want to say
now that we spread around what the problem is at least some more people can apply more brain power
to it so that's my reason for optimism. Terry? I guess I'm pleased by the inevitability of this
development because it seems to me that if you're going to create reasoning creatures
then those reasoning creatures are going to have moral rights on the same plane as human beings
so I'm looking forward to chatting with these creatures and joining in them joining into this
kind of discussions and I'm pleased that they won't be able to be thwarted and it will be wrong
to enchain these reasoning creatures. Sir Roman are you looking forward to having more of the AIs
involved in these discussions as well? I remember giving a presentation for a podcast about
rights for animals rights for AIs and I was very supportive of all the arguments developed because
I said at one point we will need to use those arguments to beg for our rights to be retained.
The question on the third row here? Yes hi I'm curious Roman which side of in your hopes of a
possible future for us to get through this do you have more hope on the side of a more top down
sort of totalizing control system for AGI systems such that they remove the possibility of
individual actors getting hold of this and weaponizing it or do you put more hope in a more
sort of decentralized open source approach to AGI emergence more like an ecology perhaps some
people suggest would be more biologically inspired such that you know immune system like functions
could arise. Which way do you lean in your sensibilities for what is a viable avenue for us?
I'm not optimistic with either of those options the only kind of hope I see is that for strategic
reasons superintelligence decides to wait to strike it will not go for immediate treacherous
turn but decides to accumulate resources and trust and that buys us a couple of decades
that's the best hope I see so far. So we slow things down we'll have more chance to work out
solutions and the slowing down might come from a combination of top down pressure and bottom up
pressure. Maybe have a is there a hand at the very back there yes let's try and get the microphone back
there. Right at the sitting at the back yes.
Sorry at the in the middle.
Thanks. Hi Roman thanks for your talk. Yeah I was wondering what your thoughts are on
aligning the first AGI that is human level or narrowly superhuman if in principle that is possible
and if that is is is it possible in principle to align the next version of AGI but to use that
narrowly superhuman AGI to align it and if if that's all technically possible then why would we
not think like focus on doing that and also and also if you think in principle alignment is
impossible and control is impossible then why why not work on practical ways to make the
to make whatever AGI is created as nice as possible that is like better than the counterfactual of
try to stop it it won't stop and you know it won't be nice. Well I definitely encourage everyone
to work on as much safety as you can anything helps I would love to be proven wrong it would
be my greatest dream that I'm completely wrong and somebody comes out and says here's a mistake in
your logic and we have developed this beautiful friendly safe system capable of doing all this
beneficial things for humanity that would be wonderful but so far I haven't seen any progress
in that direction what we're doing right now is putting lipstick on this monster and the
shadow that's all we're doing filters to prevent the model from disclosing its true intentions
when you talk about alignment it's not a very well-defined terms what values are you aligning
it with values of heads of that lab values of specific programmer we as humans don't agree on
human values that's why we have all these wars and conflicts there is a 50-50 split and most
political issues in my country we are not very good at agreeing even with ourselves over time
what I want today is not what I wanted 20 years ago so I think this idea of being perfectly
aligned with 8 billion agents and people are suggesting adding animals to it and aliens and
other AIs that doesn't seem like it's a workable proposal our values are changing
they're not static and it's very likely that they will continue changing after we get those
systems going I don't see how at any point you can claim that the system is specifically value
aligned with someone in particular the last question in this section is going to go to Connolly
Roman love your talk I always love your optimism it's always great to hear you talk so
so I'm kind of like gonna pick up on the question I was just asked and just give a bit of my opinion
and kind of like hear what you think about this as well so my personal view is that I do I have
read many of your papers in fact and they're quite good so I do think that I agree with you that like
in principle an arbitrarily intelligent system cannot be safe by any arbitrary like weaker system
just kind of by proof of like you know program size induction and whatnot but in my view it does
seem likely that there is a limit of intelligence far below the theoretical optimum but still
significantly above the human level that can be achieved the reason I think this is that
human civilization is actually very smart compared to a single caveman and can do really really great
things so my point of optimism is it seems possible that if we stop ourselves from making
self-improving systems and coordinate at a very strong scale and have very strong enforcement
mechanisms it should be possible to build systems that are you know end steps you know above human
good enough to build you know awesome you know sci-fi culture ship kind of like worlds but not
further I'm wondering if you have an intuition about like where do things hit impossibilities
like to me I think the impossibilities happen above human utopia but to get to the utopia put
you already have to do extremely strong coordination extremely strong safety research
extremely strong interpretability extremely strong constraint on the design of the agis
extremely strong regulation which I think is in principle possible wondering kind of like your
thoughts about that kind of outcome so Conor's not asking about responsible scaling he's asking
about limited superintelligence if we had limited superintelligence could we get everything we want
without having the risks that we all fear so I think I want to emphasize difference between
safety and control is it possible to create a system which will keep us safe and some
somewhat happy state of preservation possible a way in control no that system is the example you
give of humanity so humanity provides pretty nice living for me but I'm definitely not in control
if I disagree with society and many issues in politics and culture it makes absolutely no
difference I don't decide things scale it to the next level all 8 billion of us may want something
but this overseer this more intelligent system says it's not good for you we're not going to do it
this is what you're going to be doing right now so think about all the decisions you make throughout
your day you decided to eat this donut you smoke this cigarette all those decisions were made by
you because you felt you wanted to do them they may be good or bad decisions but if you had this
much more intelligent personal advisor ideal advisor you would be at the gym working out eating
carrots you may have a long healthy life but you're not in control and your happiness level
may be questionable thank you very much roman for sharing your thoughts pessimism and some
optimism thanks for moving the conversation forwards
I'm now going to invite the five members of the panel to come up on stage and they're each going
to have a couple of chances to pass some comments on what they've heard so there's some stairs over
there that you can come up to we're going to hear from jan tallan who is the co-founder of skype
the co-founder of fli future of life institute and also cesar the center for study of existential
risks we're going to hear from eva barons a policy analyst with the international center for future
generations we're going to hear from tom ohl who's a journalist who writes from time to time for the
bbc amongst other places we're going to hear from alexandra musa visadievic who is the ceo of evident
and has a track record with tortois media in many other places and we're going to hear from also
another representative from conjecture that's andrea miotti who is their specialist for ai policy
and governance so to start things let's just hear from each of them if you if you're opening remarks
jan what's your comments from what you've heard so far have you changed your mind in any ways or
other things that are missing from the conversation yeah you all have to speak into the mics i'm
being told so i yesterday i was at the dinner i was invited to a dinner and and my response to
an invitation was that okay i will come but you have to invite connor because he's making very
similar points to me only much much more intensely so yeah i basically agree i agree with what what
connor said uh my main caveat would be that for the last decade or so i've been kind of trying to build
a lot of friendly cooperation between people in the kind of ai companies and making sure that
everybody can understand that it isn't in their interests with almost everybody
let's be honest almost everybody understands that is in their interests to
and of remaining control and and not kill everyone else and so
like for example i am a board observer observer to entropic and entropic is one of those companies
just like conjecture when you go there you can talk to anyone from the receptionist
to the to the ceo and they are aware of the ai risk i'm very concerned about this
but yes i do think as i've said in several places that i don't think they should be doing what they're
doing right so these companies don't really want to do what they're doing but they feel they have
to otherwise they might be left behind so yes so there is this uh product basically dilemma in
when you want to do you know safe ai one is that you're safe like when you're trying to figure
out how to do safe ai from one hand you have groups like miri uh that the aliases with kowski
co-founded and that was the person who got me involved in ai safety uh 15 16 years ago uh
where basically the claim is that you have to start really early even if you don't know exactly
what the ai is going to look like because then you have a lot of time to prepare and then the group
on the other end of that axis is entropic where they say that it's kind of useless to start early
because you don't know what you're dealing with uh so you need to be as informed as possible
so in that strategy you need to be just always at the frontier and and dario has been very public
about this about this strategy of course the problem there is that like it also works as a
perfect justification to race right so so uh therefore it's uh i have like double digit uncertainty
both ways uh about what is what the actual picture is and so i do think that this point
the labs indeed they are involved in death race and they they there is the government
intervention needed uh to to get a time out there and we definitely need time out because we don't
have uh enough safety results uh and but to yeah romanial boski's uh presentation i call i'm definitely
more optimistic again as as on one of these slides there was the dialogue here with eliezer and
the eliezer was confident that this can be sold and in fact like i'm super glad that earlier this year
uh david tarimble uh his group got uk government funding and he has this approach called
open agency architecture i don't know exactly uh what the details there are but like my rough
understanding is that you you're using uh you're scaling ai capabilities and access uh according
to formal statements that the ai's produce and then you use not ai not humans but formal verifiers
to to verify uh those those statements therefore like building up your kind of ai capabilities
one formally verified step at the time uh there are many criticism of that but it's like one of
those approaches that is kind of at least and principle uh has like some convincing story
that that why it should work in in principle at least so there are some options that might work
but we're going to need time to develop them exactly so that's why like i've been working on
like i've been supporting ai i've taken research for more than a decade now but unfortunately we
just didn't make it uh we only need more by more time so let's hear from either because you work
more with possibilities to inspire policy you've seen examples of policy in the past slowing down
some technological races are you do you see reasons for optimism do you see ways in which
politicians can make a good difference to the landscape we're discussing definitely definitely
that very much plays into some of the problems or the issues characteristics of the problem that
both corner spoke about and that also yantan you just mentioned that one of the problems that we're
facing here is a human coordination problem and one of the ways to address that will be through
policy as has been said many times this evening this is a technology that threatens to kill us
to kill us all um and the the heads of the government of the companies that are driving
forward the technology have agreed that and publicly stated that that might be the case
and yet they seem to be locked into this dilemma that yantan just mentioned where they are for some
or other reason impossible to to stop so i think that is a point where where government can really
make a difference and step in and also should step in and we've seen that as you hinted at we've
seen that work in the past one of the examples that i often think about is the montreal protocol
which after the scientific consensus arose that cfcs and other similar gases actually destroy
the ozone layer the international community did come together in 1987 and agreed through the
montreal protocol to slowly phase out these gases so we see here that international cooperation
by the international community by governments can succeed also in the face of the short-term
economic interest of private sector companies in the public interest of well in the end in
everyone on earth so i'm not saying that it's necessarily easy but i think it's definitely
possible and it is one of the strongest levers that we have here to make a difference so i think
that's definitely something that we should lean into very strongly and do our best that
that actually happens the montreal protocol is an encouraging example but we haven't made a very good
job of the governments in the world of controlling carbon emissions we've been talking about it for
a long long time and maybe there's some progress but many people feel this is an example where
governments can't cooperate so what makes you think that we can cooperate with the problems of AI
more like the montreal protocol rather than the paris agreement to say well part of this of course
is also that i think that this is one of the few levers that we have to make a difference
at all so i also hope that we will be able to do it and i agree that looking at past climate
conference is one of the negative examples that we see there is that with these conferences
sometimes that the outcomes tend to be very watered down just because the the focus lies on
building consensus among all of the different countries that attend and then in the end you
want to have a nice little consensus agreement that everyone signs so you can demonstrate that
everyone's on the same page and everyone goes home and everyone's happy happy and i can just say that
i think with the ukai summit that's coming up now first of all that is a unique opportunity to
actually have international cooperation and coordination on this issue take place you need
to create the opportunities for stuff like that i'm really happy that the uk government took
the initiative and created this opportunity i am one thing that makes me optimistic is
that we all know that china is going to attend at least on one of the days so hopefully they
will be able to be brought into the fold and yeah then i just hope that this opportunity is truly
taken and that the outcome of this summit will not be just some vague commitments to long-term
plans but ideally concrete binding commitments to to concrete next steps let's turn to alexandra
you work a lot with businesses businesses are unsure in many ways how to deal with today's ai
do you think there is good advice that they can be given or is there a sleepwalking process with
many of our businesses definitely the latter i would say um so i i'm seo of evident we map
benchmark companies on how far they are in their ai adoption and so when um i think it was kind of
you mentioned the ai race that is on the front line of development um in ai there is also a race
as we all know going on in terms of adopting ai as as quickly as possible there's a sense of being
there's a sort of geopolitical debate on ai development between us europe china and so on um
and who's leading on that not only in ai but also in areas like quantum but in the business level
which is where i deal with um spend my time uh mostly there's a definitely a race on in terms of
not being left behind in adoption of ai and it's an economic question it is a existential question
so there's an existential question on sort of two dimensions in this debate and um and so you've got
this um unstoppable race going on on the front end of ai and then you've got an unstoppable race on
actual deploying ai at a business level and um it's going to be very hard for regulators to keep up
and to eva's point i think um in terms of what we hope will be the outcome often unfortunately
comes with with the catastrophic um happening taking place before it really sharpens the minds
and people figure out um how urgent it is i think there's a real sense of urgency in in the community
around trying to work out uh what what the guardrail should be whether it should be a constitution
um or or how we should think about implementing safety mechanisms in as as we develop um further
on our chat on our large language models but um i hope it doesn't need a catastrophic moment for
that to sharpen but back to the business question there is this um hope that maybe businesses will
self-regulate and i think that is maybe the case in highly regulated sectors you see in the banking
sector and insurance or banking in particular that there is a guardrail is put in place there but
that is um that there's a lot of businesses that don't have that regulation around them and i think
there is a real risk for this completely running out of control at a business level as well
would you advise businesses to self-regulate ahead of standards and regulations being agreed
by governments i think that's what they're doing or trying some businesses are trying to do there's
a big risk in um in the case of winning trust with your customers and also your your shareholders
and and investors if you mishandle ai and you create issues around not taking into account
how to properly deal with biases and other issues that is a situation that can create a real
breakdown and trust with your with your organization so there is that risk and then there are businesses
that don't necessarily lean on trust for their for their for their business and those are the
ones i worry the most about indeed let's turn to tom o is a representative of the world of
journalism do you feel journalists have helped the discussion about the existential threat from
ai or have they muddied the water leading people to panic unnecessarily or perhaps get distracted on
side issues rather than the main issue i think it's um all of the above aside from overrugging
the pudding i think most people in this room including me have had a wit scared out of them
by some of the talks just now one has side issues in journalism coverage of ai and i think
the jobs market is one of those but i have been surprised pleasantly so by how things
have progressed since 2016 and that's the first time that i wrote about ai safety and i think at
that point the prospects of a bad scenario relating to ai was seen as about as likely by my
colleagues as lester city winning the premier league um anyway several years later um i now see
lots of my former colleagues writing to my mind um very informed pieces about ai safety and i think
that's helped the public change well arrive at a view um and probably a lot of people in this room
aware that the american public when polled now says that they want regulation of ai
and they want a lot of it and i think we can credit journalism with some of that journalism
should be doing more but it's more than i would have thought a few years ago and if you were to
go away and write up a story about things that you might have changed your mind about tonight
and that the public should pay attention to can you give us a sneak preview what that would include
well i think um the idea of runaway ai is is not new um but i think it has been difficult
historically to frame it in a way that really sticks and like really drives its way down your
brainstem um and we have different ways of framing ai risk um and mr fosuliman's new book um which
some of you might have read i think there's a pretty good job of framing it in a in a in a way
in which he describes um ai being used to accelerate human ingenuity in whatever endeavors
humans are up to um be they um be they good or be they bad that's one way of framing it um and i
think um we've heard some pretty compelling ways of telling a story of runaway ai which is a
different and scarier story thanks and let's turn to andrea and your role at conjecture
what are you doing in a day by day basis to address this question well what we're trying to do and
i mean kind of covered a lot of it is first of all to explain the problem to people uh i've been
heartened by the public reaction in the last years like i also got to know about this problem
quite a long time ago and i in the past i could almost not expect the day that major governments
take this problem seriously and the public understand this problem and we all get together
and take some initial promising insufficient but promising steps to address it uh and i think
is figuring out policy solutions and the reality is that we don't obviously we don't have a playbook
for what exactly they look like but what i think was a common theme of the of the talks tonight
is that clearly at some level of power we are not in control anymore and everybody expects this
those who don't expect this are misguided or expected but don't don't say it and
the positive thing is that there is one physical resource that drives the majority of what makes
these systems powerful which is computing power and it's a physical resource not not like you know
algorithms that you could just write on a piece of paper it's traceable it's expensive large place
in data centers and while you know the scaling hypothesis the idea that you know the more
computing power you put into something the more powerful it becomes might head some
diminishing returns at some point we do not see any reason to expect it to stop so
we know you know from both sides companies know that more computing power leads to more power
and that's why they're doing what they're doing we know that limiting that computing power is a
very effective way to kind of stem the the bleeding and stop and our positive situation for a while
take a time out have the time to figure out the solutions have the time to absorb this into society
and how much time will that give us because there's a risk that people will use today's models
to design much more efficient ways to build next generation models and so they could therefore
come under the radar as it were that people who were watching for a large use of GPUs would miss
the clever way that somebody has built it so do we have a decade do we have three or four years
or how long yeah that's that's a great question it's captain computing power is not a permanent
solution but it's one of the best solutions we have at the moment uh as others have said before
we are in a double exponential it's not a single exponential we have an an exponential growth of
computing power hardware and exponential improvement in software we need to start
cutting down on one of the two uh cutting down on a compute depends where you put the cap
probably will buy us five seven years you can make you can make what would seem to people at
the frontier extremely strong caps that would affect you know less than 20 companies in the
world that probably could buy you 10 years in that period we need to figure out all of the rest
it's gonna be a hard problem but we have done it before with nuclear weapons we've done it before
with biological weapons we can do it again we're gonna go around the panelists one more time in
the same order i'll give you a chance a choice panelist you can either comment on what you've
heard from somebody else or you can paint me a picture of what would be a successful ali safety
summit in bletchley park if things go well what would be the outcome and what would also be the
follow-up so yarn first well i'm the one of the authors of the post letter so it's like
indefinite moratorium uh on further scaling uh would be sort of my wet dream from outcome from
from this summit or perhaps the next one if this one isn't realistic and what's the chance do you
think what might cause the assembled world leaders to have an intellectual breakthrough and say yes
actually we do need to have this indefinite pause so currently i'm not very optimistic on on that
perhaps perhaps but perhaps in six months it would be much more clearer
why this is needed so and and we have more time to kind of do the necessary loving
so the discussion is prepared to ground and when something really bad happens in six months when
gpd 5 comes out and oh my god at least we'll know what we should be doing yeah i mean let's not forget
that gpd chat gpd has been out less than one year so like the world was very different one year ago
same question to you either yeah thank you i think i'm just going to build on top of jan's ideal
outcome of the summit and say that i would also find it terrific if the summit could be the first
in a series of repeated um summits like this where world leaders come together because as we i think
a pretty clear picture has been painted tonight of the fact that the field of ai evolves very quickly
and is going to continue to evolve very quickly if not ever quicker and because of that i think it
would be very valuable if we would have a regular occasion for world leaders to come together and
not only make sure that the rules that they came up with are upheld but also to reevaluate
whether they still make sense and where they need to be adapted or whether new real rules need to
be introduced as for example measures like compute control that andrea mentioned they buy us some
time but at some point they might not be applicable anymore so not just agreement on rules but setting
up some audit process so that we can figure out whether the rules are being forward or not for
example yeah same question to you i would agree you have to build in i mean right now it's just
based especially in the us um the talks that have been held in the white house and by chuck schumer
the gatherings have led to sort of ideas around voluntary um adherence to some principles but
there is absolutely no built-in audit or accountability um so i think that we've got
to see that come out of of the uk's ai safety summit among other things maybe there has to be
something more concrete around licensing um of the models and and the use of them and that they
have to pass some kind of a threshold i think the risk of of bad actors getting hold of them is
is a is a much higher risk i think the ia ea structure is is one that one can look at but the
the nuclear a lot of the success probably of the ia ea lies in the mutual assured destruction
of humanity by using um nuclear weapons and this might be the same situation but they're easier to
monitor i think um i think this might be slightly harder because you can land in the hands of bad
actors more easily we haven't really discussed bad actors much in this session tonight maybe that
makes the things even more horrifying we might come back to that later and tom what's your answer
what would you like to see come out of the summit or maybe you've got some comment on something else
you've heard from the other speakers well i'll talk about the summits um often when CEOs of um
labs developing agi are asked about regulation um they basically say bring it on we love some
regulation um and i think it would be great if politicians could actually put that to the test
very good and andrea what would you like to see if you were invited to bletchley park and given
their microphone for two minutes what would you entreat the assembled world leaders to consider
well i i don't want to be too hopeful as some others here have been but at the very least i
would like to see a commitment to the fact that this is extremely dangerous technology
continuing to scale leads to predictable disaster and we need to pull on the brakes right now
we have a lot of applications are very beneficial we can focus on those but limit this death
phrase to the ever more powerful ever more obscure general systems that we can control what they
definitely do not want to see is a diplomatic shake of hands where companies write their own
playbook and say we're gonna keep doing exactly what we we're doing right now but it's gonna sound
responsible and governments can wash their hands and say well we did our part let's move on that
would be a very bad outcome right i'm gonna ask for three questions from the floor i'm gonna get
the panel to think which ones to answer but i'm trying to take people haven't asked before so on
the second row here there's a hand up here and then also the second row over there next as well
let's take three fairly short questions please hi first of all thank you very much for coming
here tonight and sharing your expertise with all of us in this whole question this whole discussion
there's the implicit assumption that agi is coming and it's coming soon and the million dollar
question i guess is when exactly is it coming but a more practical question is what are some
warning signs and do we already see some of those in the systems that we have currently deployed
great let's have a question over here as well sorry the microphone's gonna have to
run around at the end of the second row there
thank you for great panel um my question's related to yon's comment at the beginning
on essentially dario amadeus philosophy which is you know and and also related to i guess
roman's uh talk which is how do we solve the control problem and what i've heard the large
our labs repeat is oh you know we need to increase capability that's only better AI that is going to
be able to help us figure out how to solve AI and there's sort of this race to increase capability
up to the point that can help us solve it but no further and and and just sort of thoughts on that
philosophy and and and and you know uh whether there might be something to it or is it just a
completely risky game you know thanks and there was one in the middle of the third row there
pass the microphone along please to the middle
how long of a time frame do you think we have between the arrival of agi and the arrival
of superintelligence and within that time frame could there be tractable solutions for alignment
or the control problem and if so would those solutions be able to be implemented before
hurry up and develop better AI third question was how long might it take between the arrival of agi
and superintelligence and whether there would be time for us to work out solutions then and my
question i guess is well what's all this about agi isn't the bletchley park summit set up to
discuss something else which is frontier models which says that there are catastrophic risks
even before we get to agi so i'm gonna go around the same order again i'll be a bit predictable
jan you want to pick one of these questions maybe i mean the answer to all the all three
questions is uncertain and that's that's why we need to pause and kind of take a time out and see
like how can we kind of create more set more certainty about these things i think i would
answer the entropic question specifically that definitely is a lot of truth to the to the point
that like the more capable model you have to work with the more kind of better position you are
empirically you can you can kind of be too like too science in a way that you just can't do with
models from from 10 years ago and also like one claim that people on topic to make is that like in
some ways it becomes easier as the model kind of has better understanding of what you're trying to do
with it or to do to it but that said again it's a to put it lightly it's playing with fire so so
it's i'm not sure if anyone should be doing it either and jan said it's all uncertain but can't
we at least agree in advance some canary signs that will make us say things are happening faster
than we expected well i mean if we look at the past there were several signs that people agreed on
that they might point out that we're getting into a zone where ai is maybe more capable than we think
it is and i mean we certainly have seen signs connor mentioned or was it roman mentioned that
current models um outperform most humans on things like the bar exam um these are clearly
advances in capabilities that um i almost wonder sometimes if we just become desensitized to them
because we move so fast i mean again charge upt came out a couple months ago and it's already
just normal and people are waiting okay what's the next big thing so um it doesn't really help
to think retroactively have there been any signs um if you didn't take them to actually stop and
reconsider what you're doing so i think one of the big problems here is not have there been signs
a big problem is can we pre-commit to stopping when we see certain signs and then actually stop
actually take certain actions and we just haven't seen that before so this is developing contingency
solutions like we're meant to have had contingency solutions for pandemics yeah yeah any comments
alizandra i i will leave the um well how long it's going to take to reach agi to to the experts on
the panel but on the outcome of the summit and i think that there is a bit of a confusion sometimes
and in in what we are expecting to be achieved from the discussions on regulation because there's
an obvious very important urgent and existential question around regulation regulating for the
long term but then we also have businesses that are sitting and waiting for regulation that is here
and now how is it going to impact my particular sector how is it going to impact what i'm doing
today and what are the immediate and very very real risks right now here today that we are seeing
with ai having impact on you know media with disinformation and so on but then there's also
the specific um aspects to how that is implemented in particular sectors so i um hope that we would
see addressing both of those short term and long term questions thanks tom any thoughts
yeah on yardsticks i think it's worth remembering that the canonical yardstick was the Turing test
and that's long gone um ai's can now beat humans at um diplomatic based games for instance um and
much more um the modern Turing test is i think quite an interesting proposition um and that's
the test of whether the ai can i think make a million dollars very quickly um but as as eva says
we must stop shifting the gold posts um we need to agree that the one is we should pick one
agree that that's the one where we start taking it seriously and then take it seriously when it
is passed which it will be quite soon but in the past people said you won't manage to solve chess
unless you have got a full grasp of all aspects of creativity and so on and then when deep blue did
win at chess people said oh well it's not actually doing it in the way that we thought would be so
terrible it's just grunting out incredibly so i feel there will always be people who
don't move the gold post but they'll say well how it was implemented it doesn't demonstrate
too intelligent yeah i think that's a good point um and it reminds us something um conna said um
which is that there won't be consensus at the time to act so we need to be able to build a
coalition of the willing uh andrea what's your views on these questions yeah maybe answering the
last one first on isn't a summit about frontier ai well much like with gold posts it feels a bit
like terminology is being shifted all the time sometimes quite willingly by the companies
building this uh you know in in the in the old days people used to talk about superintelligence or
friendly ai or strong ai then became agi then recently the frontier term was a kind of open
ai entropic rebrand of oh no like we're not well we're gonna get to very powerful ai system soon
but it's frontier which sounds better than agi because people are getting concerned about agi
you know in practice do these terms matter not too much what matters is how competent systems are
basically all of these companies expect to build systems that outperform humans at most tasks
definitely most tasks you can do behind a computer in the next two to five years
there's these matches the trends that we see in performance and compute growth this
is very worrying uh these these are these are levels of competence uh at which we expect the
systems to be out of our control unless we have various solutions so we just need to deal with that
we can call it frontier ai agi proto agi proto superintelligence it's just terminology what
matters is how powerful they are and how ready we are to deal with them we must avoid the serious
discussions getting sidelined into semantics which is often very frustrating we're gonna take three
more questions we're gonna go around the panel in the reverse order next time i'm gonna take
questions from people who haven't answered asked before so somebody in white about halfway down
if you have asked a question before please don't put your hand up just now so we have more chance
just there yes thank you three questions one from each thanks um let's say that in 20 years
we somehow managed to get it right and humanity still exists um despite the development of these
adi what do you think is one essential piece of regulation or development that has to have
happened together it's a great question uh where else with the hands uh where are the microphones
there's one about just on the other side thank you so you've spoken quite a lot about like what
government should do what companies should do uh i'm interested in like what should ordinary people
do like what can we be doing to get our voices heard in this you know should we be protesting
i've edited international protest on the 21st is this thing we should be doing or is this a terrible
idea it's another fine question is there a question from a woman it's about time we heard from the
other gender another gender hands up yes somebody put your hand up to whoever it was
yeah there's one okay there's one there and we'll take you as well we'll take four right
um as agi has been developed to be more human do you think it's possible to have forms of agi
that don't have the inherent geopolitical biases that come with the data sets that we currently have
and how do you think we go about developing regulations that aren't formed by human conscious bias
okay and so if we can get the mic over here as well too one two three four five rows back
just at the edge yes over there yeah i miscounted perhaps yeah four sorry quick question um so i
actually work in the automotive industry and we have to certify vehicles and engines and it is
an uphill battle um you can spend years just trying to get a windshield wiper right um or a
temperature sensor right and i'm just curious um if you think that there would be an ability to
take people who have regulated and certified products around global markets and how difficult
that is and create a summit where that expertise could come together from different industries
and we could roll up our sleeves and say okay this is how the structures go and we know what
works we know what goes slow and try to accelerate that learning because i think that voice we have
so much experience in the world right now um with that sleeves rolled up we know what it's like to
sit in those test labs or send 30 000 pages of documents in with verification and validation
data we know how to do requirements engineering requirements design requirements and i'm just
wondering if um there's been any discussion of that to pull you know pull a summit together from
people from heavily regulated industries four great questions first of all 20 years later it
succeeded how did we get it right what were the regulations that made the difference what should
ordinary people be doing can we design AI that is free from some of the human biases the geopolitical
biases that cause strife among humans and can we learn from the people who are professionally
involved in doing regulations and certification in multiple industry rather than just to being
naive in our own applications so Andrea first yeah maybe i will answer the question about can we
learn about highly regulated industries definitely i think there is a big kind of problem of uh
arrogance in AI or like willful arrogance of just thinking that this sector should be special and
people should be absolutely free to do any experiments they want all the time uh use you
know as much computing power as they want try the worst possible applications all the time
fully open source on the internet and nobody can complain like very often people in the
eye sector get very very angry when somebody tells them look well maybe what you just did
should be regulated in other industries we don't do it like that like with drugs we don't just let
pharmaceutical companies just release and test the drugs on billions of people and have their
CEOs say oh there's a 20 percent chance you will die if you take this drug but you know it's okay
like if it happens you can let us know and then we'll we'll stop maybe right so we can totally
learn from that we'll be great to learn from that um there is one challenge which is that we don't
understand current systems that well so it makes things like auditing them and evaluating them
quite tricky because we simply don't know how they work internally as well but we can do many other
things and we can definitely learn from highly regulated industries and definitely given the
risks admitted by the companies themselves other frontier the approach should be
highly regulated industry not so it is different but not completely different and we can indeed learn
tom closing words from you um well i'll take the um the question about what ordinary people
should do um and have two immediate thoughts one is that it's very important to keep this issue
apolitical um the other is that lawmakers need a sense of legitimacy i think um in order to
come up with regulation um and to bring it in through acts and bills and so on um a good example
of um when this happened a bit too slowly was it the outset of covid um and when it was a fringe
issue there were no enough rules then the public got involved um and suddenly the rules arrived a
little too late but they did arrive um and how can ordinary people achieve this um i think ordinary
people i i don't have a theory of of protest so i won't comment on that um but i think it's
important um that we all keep this in the public conversation i suppose what my answer is really
tending towards is you should all read lots of journalism about ai click on my articles thanks
alessandra any of these questions catch your attention i think i think um your question
in the orange sweater there is is um is is definitely where we're headed i mean there's
got to be some kind of um system that resembles either the car industry or fda and um the way that
we certify um our you know products generally speaking and i i just don't know how we get from
from that to something that is very difficult to trace and to to monitor as as ai but i would say
to the gentleman's question in the white shirt there if we're looking 20 years down the road
and we say that's really great in the uk november 2023 we we were able to put in place regulation
that somehow created traceability um so we could we could work out sort of where the where they were
where systems were running out of control or landing in the hands of bad actors that would
be a huge success i think that the reality is a bit different and that is that it probably is
going to resemble a bit more the world in which cyber security um flourishes and that means you're
constantly trying to create um a dam system or a a um deflection of all sort of incoming um
activities that are not great so i know that none of these are perfect analogies but i think it is
and in that universe we're probably going to be operating in for a while thanks final words either
sure so i would love to touch on two questions very briefly one of them um being i think your
question the white shirt what uh policies will bring us to a safe world in 20 years and i think um
a policy that was mentioned today as well already but that i want to touch on again is um strict
liability regimes just simply to kind of shift the incentive systems um incentive structures that
drive private companies to take certain actions that are not in the interest of um the wider
general public so i think there we can um really um shift shift the incentive structure to move
companies to take um maybe different paths forward and then what can the the average person the
general public do i would completely agree with tom i think um one thing that that really would help
us to for lack of a better expression to just make noise just make sure that this topic is um
talked about publicly you can do this in different ways you can write to your local newspaper you
can make a protest if that's up your alley you can write to your mp or your congressman or
wherever you live um and again create that legitimacy for people to actually act on the
problem because to many people it does sound very much like sci-fi and policy makers i'm not going
to take action and newspapers are not going to continue to report about an issue if you're like
it doesn't have traction and isn't taken seriously by the general public the other thing the general
public can do is we can educate ourselves and then we can share what information we have found
to be most persuasive ourselves because there's a wide variety of books a wide variety of youtube
channels a wide variety of blogs and some of them are better than others so let's share what we have
found to be the really best ones auto before i pass to you and maybe i'll ask you to get ready to
come up on the stage because you're going to give some closing remarks but jan what's your answers to
what you've heard uh so yeah just to just kind of underline the what ordinary people could do
is just kind of keep this topic alive like one of the things that i'm very proud of uh that came out
of the future of life six months post letter uh was uh framed by uh european commissioner Margaret
best agar when she said that like one thing that this letter has done is to kind of like communicate
to the regulators that these concerns are much more widespread among people than among regulators
so i think this uh potential difference should be continually kind of maintained
so and when it comes to uh kind of bringing in uh kind of expertise from people from like
regulated industries i think it's super valuable i was on the on the board or like on the european
high-level expert group at the european commission and there was like every once in a while there was
like why are we inventing the wheel like that we already have like lots of regulations should we
just apply this and i was like yes however there's like one big problem uh the problem is p in chat gpt
gpt stands for generative pre-trained transformer the pre-training is something that you do before
you actually train so the current the nasty secret of ai field is the ai's are not built
they are grown the way you you build the frontier model build the frontier model is you take like
two pages of code you put them in tens of thousands of graphics cards and let them hum for months
and then you're gonna open up the hood and see like what creature brings out and what you can
can do with this creature so it's i think the regulate the industry the capacity to regulate
things uh and kind of deal with various liability constraints etc they apply to what happens after
what's once this creature has been kind of tamed and that's what what uh fine tuning and
uh reinforcement learning from human feedback etc is doing and then productized then how do you
deal with with these issues but uh is this where we need the competence of of like other other
industries but like how can avoid the system not escaping during training run this is this is
like a completely novel issue for this species and we need to need to need some other approaches
like just banning those training runs that's great we'll thank the panel in a minute i'll ask
the panel to stay here because who's going to wind up the evening is auto bartend auto is the
executive director of the ero the existential risks observatory which along with conjecture has
designed and organized and sponsored this whole evening auto has got a few closing remarks before
those of us are still here can have a quick drink and continue the discussion informally
up to 10 o'clock by which time we must be out of the building auto
all right uh thanks david um a few closing remarks before we go to the drinks which is
five minutes so you should be able to keep with me um so we're talking tonight about human extinction
because of ai and what to do about this um and i think what to do about this there was also a
great question from the audience what can we do about this this is exactly the question that i
asked myself a few years ago um but it's not trivial and it's it's pretty difficult actually
what is net positive what could you do develop ai yourself try to do it safely such as open ai
deep mines and entropic are doing will this increase safety some say so work on ai alignment
for example interpretability where we've seen great breakthroughs actually last week it could be a
good option but increasing knowledge of how ai works could also speed up its development so this
brings risks as well one could campaign for regulations such as an ai pause we support this
but this also has its downsides so i think it's pretty difficult to tell what one should do to
reduce human extinction risk by ai but when i started reading into this i was only really
convinced about one thing and that is that you cannot put humanity at risk without telling us
so you cannot have a dozen tech executives embarking on the singularity without informing
anyone else and you cannot have a hundred people at a summit which is what's happening now decide
what should be built and what should not be built and i think you cannot let a tiny amount of people
also decide how high extinction risk should be for the rest of us so the only thing that i am
really convinced of is that we should be informed about this topic and that's also why i'm so happy
that events such as this one are taking place we're happy i'm happy that we're together not just
with in crowd people some of you are and it's great but also with some people who may have never heard
of existential risk before and also with journalists who can inform a much wider audience about
existential risk also with a member of parliament someone with a job to openly discuss difficult
problems so i think this is all very encouraging and it's helping to normalize an open debate about
the topic of human extinction by artificial intelligence the 31st of october at two o'clock
we'll have our next event with professor steward russell it's just outside the ai safety summit
in bletchley park in the old assembly hall where the code breakers used to have their
festivities after their important work so our event at bletchley park the day before the summit
may not resemble a festivity but in a sense i think it is because we're celebrating that we're all
being hurt here we're celebrating that we can all be part of a democratic conversation about what
the most important technology of the century should and should not be able to do we can talk
about risks to humanity we find acceptable and what we intend to do about risks that are too high
and as the existential risk observatory together with conjecture we invite everyone to be part
of this conversation so there's much to be unsure of in this field but if there's one thing that i
am sure of it's that the most important conversation in this century which i think this is has to be
a democratic one so with that i would like to invite you to scan the qr code on the left
if this is working right yes to join us in bletchley this is containing the url where you
can enroll to the bletchley park event if you're interested then definitely pass by
there's same qr code is also on the flyer on your chair and beyond bletchley i think this
conversation will not stop so there will be more summits according to my timeline about
maybe 18 roughly um so we will organize more events probably publish more about ai do more
research and inform governments as well as we can if you want to follow us or support us the
existential risk observatory in that work then scan the qr code on the right there's much that you
can do to to help us um and with that i would like to close this evening and once again thanks to
all the great speakers so that's uh romeo polsky cornelly sir robert buckland yantalin andrea
milti alexandra mosefisa day ava birans and some are give them a round of applause
and i would also very much like to thank david wood uh should see them conor xio dis
even diluman and everyone at conway hall will also make this evening possible thank you very much
and then i would like to hopefully see you in bletchley and in any case you are the drink
right now thank you thanks everybody
you
You